=pod

=head1 NAME

B<pam_jail> - authentication, account and session management PAM jailing module. 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pam_jail> is a PAM module that allows jailing users in vserver contexts. A
configuration file defines xid's associated with specific group names. When 
a user belonging to such a group logs in through pam_jail, the process performing 
the login will be jailed in the vserver contexts (security context + network context
and corresponding namespaces) matching the associated xid. This jailing functionality
is provided for three PAM management groups: authentication, account management, 
and session management.

Note that B<pam_jail> does not create those vserver contexts, they must be already 
running, and typically kept alive by a daemon or through the use of L<vsctl(8)|vsctl>'s
B<setup> functionality.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<pam_jail> supports the following options:

=over 12

=item B<debug> 

Log debugging information via L<syslog(3)|syslog>.

=item B<no_jail>	

Perform the usual group/xid lookup, but do not actually enter the jail if found.
Useful for debugging.

=item B<not_found_fails>

Return an error when a user doesn't belong to any group associated with an xid. Wether
or not this actually prevents this user from e.g. logging in depends on the specific 
pam stack involved.

=item B<proxy>

Set up a terminal proxy before entering the jail. This opens a Unix98 pseudo-terminal, 
and then forks the current process. The child then sets up the slave side of this pty
as its controlling terminal before entering the jail, while the father stays outside 
the jail and relays writes and reads from the master side of the pty to and from its
own controlling terminal, thus acting as a proxy for the jailed process. This is 
especially useful when logging in from a console, to avoid entering the jail with an
open file descriptor on e.g. /dev/tty1.

=back

=head1 FILES

B<pam_jail> uses F</etc/security/jail.conf> as its configuration file. This file contains
associations in the form: B<groupname> [spaces,tabs] B<xid>, one per line. Comments can
be written after a '#' character.

=head1 AUTHOR 

Vincent Strubel <L<clipos@ssi.gouv.fr>>

=head1 CREDITS

B<pam_jail> is largely based on B<pam_chroot> code, by Matthew Kirkwood, Ed
Schmollinger, Heiko Hund and John Newbigin.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vsctl(8)|vsctl>, L<pam(8)|pam>, L<vserver(8)|vserver>
 
=cut
